Well, brothers and sisters, hasn't this been an amazing program?
This is truly a historic day in the history of Jehovah's Witnesses.
And maybe our hearts right now are more full of love and appreciation for our wonderful God, Jehovah,
than ever before. We've deepened our understanding of Jehovah's mercy, his compassion, and his patience.
And what about that announcement about our field service reporting?
Jehovah is dignifying us. He has confidence in us. You see, why do we go from house to house?
Why do we do cart work? Why do we make telephone calls and write letters and make return visits and
start Bible studies? Why do we do all of these things? It's because we truly
love our amazing and wonderful God, Jehovah. As Brother Flegal emphasized in his talk,
at Matthew 22 and verse 37, Jesus identified the greatest and first commandment. Do you remember what
he said? You must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul and with
your whole mind. But is there something else that moves us to make disciples? Yes.
It's what Jesus said was the second greatest commandment. Jesus said, you must love your neighbor
as yourself. So we must love God, but we must also love people. Now, why is love for people so
important? Well, because when we see that someone cares about us, we are moved even if we don't know
that person. For example, maybe someone you've never met before does a kind deed for you. Maybe
they open a door for you. They pick something up that you've dropped or they help you carry a heavy
load. How do you feel? Well, you appreciate their kindness, don't you? And as a result, you're more
inclined to want to listen to what that person might want to say to you. You see, when we sense
that someone has love for us, we open up our hearts. Well, unselfish love is so powerful. It
touches the hearts of those who are rightly disposed for everlasting life. And Jesus said that his
true disciples would be identified. They'd be recognized by the love that they had in their midst.
Well, isn't it true that so often brothers and sisters say that what it was that drew them to
the truth was the love they felt from their Bible teacher or from the congregation when they
began to attend meetings. Well, very likely, that same love was what drew you to want to become
a disciple of Christ Jesus. Well, for that reason, at the 2017 annual meeting, the governing body
encouraged us to begin to think more about conversing with people. And at that same meeting,
you remember we simplified our teaching toolbox so that we could become more familiar with the
various tools that we use in the ministry. You see, we want to carefully consider each individual's
personal situation, the concerns that they have, the interests that they have, and then be flexible
in choosing a topic that we want to discuss with them. Well, for several years now, our midweek meetings
have provided us with sample conversations, with suggested scriptures, and even with a suggested
link to help us to continue the conversation at a later time. But is there a challenge sometimes
with a memorized presentation? You know, I think back when I was a brand new pioneer, one day I was
out with his sister in the ministry. As we were going to the door, you know, she was actually
mouthing her presentation. She had it perfectly memorized. And suddenly this woman came to the door,
she opened the door, and here she was, beautiful older lady, hair done, makeup on, beautifully
dressed, looking like she was just going out. The sister was so flustered, she said, oh, I'm sorry,
did we get you out of bed? Yeah, memorized presentations. Not always good. Well, maybe we've memorized
presentations. And sometimes we felt like we're giving a talk when we're at the door. But what if the
person has a very specific interest? What if they have some special need or they're facing some
terrible challenge just at the time when we're calling? Well, we want to look to the example of our
Lord Jesus Christ. He set the perfect example for us. He showed love for people by choosing subjects
that were appropriate for each individual and his personal interest in individuals attracted
people to the message. Well, for example, do you remember the time when Jesus had a conversation
with the Pharisee Nicodemus? Now, Nicodemus was impressed by Jesus' miracles, and he approached
Jesus at night probably because he was afraid of the Jews. Now, as a Pharisee and a teacher,
Nicodemus evidently must have had a very great knowledge of the Hebrew scriptures. So what did
Jesus do? Well, he shared something with Nicodemus that was completely new. You see, he talked about new
truths about being born again and about seeing the kingdom of God. He explained to Nicodemus that he
had descended from the heavens and that he was the only begotten Son of God and that he was the way
to everlasting life. Well, I'm sure you'd agree that even though Nicodemus was a teacher,
he received quite an education from Jesus on that night. But now, does that mean that Jesus took
exactly that same approach with everyone that he met? Well, no, not at all. You see, on another
occasion, when Jesus spoke to the Samaritan woman, his approach was completely different.
Evidently, the Samaritan woman had a very basic knowledge of the Hebrew scriptures.
So what did Jesus do? Well, he noted the things she was interested in like obtaining water
and why Jesus, as a Jew, would speak with a Samaritan. Well, Jesus also took an interest
in her family situation. He noted that she was very concerned about why did Jews
worship in one location and Samaritans in a different location? What did Jesus do?
Well, he talked with her about the things that interested her that were of concern to her. He
helped her to see that worshiping was spirit and truth was more important than the location
where individuals would worship. And how did that woman respond? Well, the Bible says she left
her water jar there at the well. She went into the city and she gave a powerful witness about Jesus.
She was so effective that the Samaritans invited Jesus to stay and many put faith in him.
So now, what do we learn from these two simple accounts? Well, Jesus did not use a memorized
presentation. He just talked with people and he shared with them the truths that he knew
would touch their hearts. He was very quick to choose topics and words based on the interests
and the concerns of the person that he was speaking to. Well, now, with all of this in mind,
you may be wondering what you're supposed to be wondering. How can I display that same love for
the people that I meet? See, wouldn't it be wonderful to have a little bit more help to see how we
can show love for people and make disciples? See, wouldn't it be wonderful to have a publication
that would help us to be more flexible and more responsive to the different needs and interests
of the people that we meet? And what if that publication highlighted specific ways
that Jesus and other first century evangelizers showed their love as they made disciples?
Well, you will be happy to know that Jehovah's organization has produced just such a publication.
It's a 32-page brochure entitled, Love People Make Disciples.
But now, would you like to see a little preview of what this brochure contains? Please watch
the following video. This new publication, Love People Make Disciples, is being made available in
both print and digital formats in over 400 languages. How is the brochure designed to help us show
love for people we meet? Unlike the tools we've used in the past, this new brochure
does not give us expressions to memorize, nor does it put the emphasis on leaving literature.
Rather, it features 12 lessons that focus on qualities we need to cultivate to make disciples.
All the lessons are based on Bible accounts, in which Jesus or another first century evangelizer
displayed a specific quality in the ministry. The lessons will help us see how we can imitate
the qualities they demonstrated as we make disciples. Each lesson contains a video that brings
the account to life. A woman of Samaria came to draw water. Give me a drink. By cultivating an
interest in people, we can talk about things that are on their minds. What truths might we share
with people once a conversation is started? Appendix A highlights basic Bible truths that we love to
teach. Make it your goal to learn these basic truths and the scriptures that support them.
If you do, you will be more effective in starting conversations and in making disciples.
For example, a conversation can be started by asking a simple question, such as,
have you heard that God will soon end all suffering? Or did you know that the earth's environment
will be restored? Sharing a simple truth at the right time is powerful. Jesus said his sheep would
listen to his voice. In other words, rightly disposed ones will recognize the truth when they hear
it expressed simply. Appendix B helps us to determine whether to continue a conversation.
Appendix C provides practical suggestions on how to conduct Bible studies and enjoy life forever.
What if you don't feel comfortable starting conversations? Don't worry.
Beginning in January 2024, the apply yourself portion of each midweek meeting will help us to
practice the points we are learning in this new brochure. The meeting will no longer focus on
presenting a predetermined topic in scripture. Rather, students will select topics for their
assignments that they know are on the minds of those in their community. By means of realistic
demonstrations, audience discussions, and talks, our meetings will assist us to develop skills that
will help us start conversations naturally and adapt to each person's concerns and needs.
By focusing on people, we will become more comfortable and more effective as we make disciples.
As you consider each lesson, think carefully about how you can demonstrate the highlighted
qualities when conversing with people in your community. Ask yourself, what are their concerns and
needs? As you go about your activities, be observant. Look for appropriate opportunities to
help people in practical ways. Acts of kindness can open the door to share kingdom truth.
Show that you care by listening to others when they express themselves.
Share a simple truth at the right time. Remember, our goal is not to memorize the presentation,
but to demonstrate Christ-like love to everyone we meet. This will require patience,
perseverance, and commitment. No matter where we live, or under what circumstances we are preaching,
simply showing love will help us to find joy in our ministry. More than any specific technique,
actively expressing our love for others will help us make disciples.
So, we indeed thank Jehovah for this wonderful new tool to make us more effective in our ministry.
Of course, the question you may be wondering is, when will you receive your copy of this new brochure?
Well, you'll be pleased to know that it's going to be made available to all congregations in
electronic format and, in most places, in printed format by November 6. In addition,
this entire four-part symposium will be posted on JW.org on November 6 so that all of our
brothers and sisters will hear the information in this symposium at the same time. Isn't that great?
Of course, we're all going to want to read the brochure. We're going to want to watch the videos,
but wasn't it wonderful to hear in this video that the governing body has arranged
to make use of this new publication beginning in the month of January during our midweek meeting.
So, we're going to get the opportunity to put this into practice right away. So, what have we learned
in this four-part symposium? In Part 1, Brother Flegal reminded us why we love Jehovah,
and how our love motivates us to want to praise him. In Part 2, Brother Loche,
explained the differences between most Israelites and those who volunteer to be Nazareth.
In Part 3, Brother Heard helped us to see that although congregation publishers will no longer
report their time in the ministry, this in no way diminishes our individual responsibility
to make disciples. And finally, in this part, we received a new tool that will help us to show
our love for people and to make disciples. It's really amazing to witness, as Jehovah's people,
the fulfillment of Isaiah chapter 60 and verse 17. You remember the prophecy there.
It says, instead of the copper, I will bring in gold. And instead of the iron, I will bring in silver.
Instead of the wood, copper. And instead of the stones, iron. And I will appoint peace as your
overseers and righteousness as your task assigners. Well, what's the point of the prophecy?
You see, it outlines that good materials would gradually be replaced by even better ones.
And that's exactly what we have seen. You think back in the 1930s, when our brothers became
so zealous in the ministry, they went out with phonographs and testimony cards.
But of course, at that time, they didn't speak. Either the record did the speaking or people read
the card. My mother loved to tell the story about being in the service with her pioneer partner.
The door opened. She handed the man the testimony card. Of course, it didn't say anything.
The man started to read it. Suddenly his wife called out, who's at the door?
The man said, I don't know. There's two deaf women here and I'm trying to figure out what they want.
Well, that was the reality. We weren't speaking.
But how Jehovah improved the situation? He trained his people how to give an effective witness.
And then we had publications like reasoning from the scriptures that helped us to learn how to
use the Bible to reason with people. And more recently, Jehovah has given us this marvelous tool,
enjoy life forever so that we can conduct much more quality Bible studies.
And now with the release of this brochure, we're going to focus on people and talk about the things
that are of interest to them and in that way endeavor to reach their heart so that they can become
disciples. Well, it's true. With each of these organizational adjustments, we went from
something good to something better. And I think with the things that were announced today,
isn't it true that we're seeing that again? We're going from something that was good to something
even better. And I think we'd agree too that Jehovah is helping us to mature as a people.
He has confidence in us that our concern is not merely the number of hours or the publications
that we place that we're going to put on a report. We love Jehovah, we love people,
and we want to make disciples. And so what does all of this mean?
And what does it not mean? Well, first, these adjustments do not, they do not mean that we are in
any way slacking off in our ministry. It does not mean that we are slowing down as we approach
the Great Tribulation. Nothing could be further from the truth. Right now, we have more than 50,000
applications from students who want to attend the School for Kingdom Evangelizers. We're appointing
new missionaries, new special pioneers and temporary special pioneers and an army of new regular
pioneers. And in some lands like the Philippines, sorry, I have to mention the Philippines,
we're experiencing record growth. Can you imagine a 9% increase this year with a new peak of 253,876
publishers and 12,954 baptized just in this last year. Isn't that amazing?
So please know, please know that in no way is the work slowing down. Our ministry has never been
more important than it is now. So what then do these adjustments mean? Well, they do mean
that our motivation for carrying out the ministry has been even more clarified. You see, we share
in the ministry because we love Jehovah and because we love people. So this is the time when we want
to be busy in Jehovah's work. Do you remember Jesus' parable of the master and the three slaves?
That parable was designed to teach us what we need to be doing while we're waiting for the end
to come. Two of those slaves were industrious and they doubled the master's money. And as a result,
they were blessed. We want to have that same industrious, diligent spirit. We want elders and
ministerial servants and pioneers to take the lead in the ministry. But all of us,
we all in our personal ministry want to be even more zealous in what we have accomplished in our
ministry. What an exciting time this is. The governing body sincerely hopes that many more
will come to join us in serving Jehovah before the end comes. And remember, Jehovah delights
in rewarding his people for their faithfulness and for their generosity. So with the great tribulation
fast approaching, have no doubt that Jehovah will soon richly reward you as we all give generously
of our time and our effort to love our amazing God, Jehovah, and to make disciples.